README.md, before:

# WATCHWORTHY (a movie managament app)

## Description
Watchworthy is a movie management application that allows users to effortlessly search for and add movies to their collection. Utilizing The Open Movie Database API, users can browse movies by title and add them to their Watchworthy collection with just a click. Once added, users can access an organized list of their chosen movies and click on each poster to view detailed information about the movie. Furthermore, removing movies from their collection is just as simple. Watchworthy streamlines the process of managing favorite movies or creating a collection for future viewing, making it an intuitive and user-friendly application.

**NOTE:** 
 [The Open Movie Database API](https://www.omdbapi.com/): has comprehensive documentation that is easy to follow. The API supports a variety of endpoints, including movie search and information retrieval. The API also supports several data formats, including JSON and XML.

---
## **TABLE OF CONTENT:**
1. [Screenshot of application](#screenshot-of-application)
1. [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
1. [Usage](#usage)
1. [Technologies utilization](#technologies-utilization)
1. [Contributors](#contributors)
1. [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)

---
## Screenshot of application
![search view](./public/searchvview.png)

---

## Installation & Setup
1. $ git clone git@github.com:xaihang/weekend-movie-sagas.git
1. `npm install`
1. Start postgres using brew services start postgresql (database name: `saga_movies_weekend`)
1. `npm run server` in your terminal
1. `npm run client` in another terminal. 
1. Navigate to localhost:3000

---

## Usage
*To use the movie management application, follow these steps:*

1. Open the Home/List Page to see a list of all the movies in the database.
1. Click on a movie poster to view the Details Page for that movie.
1.On the Details Page, you can view all details for the selected movie, including the title, description, image, and genres. To return to the Home/List Page, click the Back to List button.
1. To add a new movie, go to the Add Movie Form and fill in the movie title, poster image URL, description, and select a genre from the dropdown list. Click the Save button to save the new movie to the database and return to the Home/List Page.
1. To refresh the Details Page and maintain the same movie details, enable the Refresh on Details Page feature.
1. To edit the title and description of a movie, click on the Edit button on the Details Page. On the Edit Page, change the title and description as desired and click the Save button to update the movie details in the database and return to the Details Page.


---

## Technologies utilization 

* Javascript
* HTML
* CSS
* [React](https://reactjs.org/)
* [React Router v5](https://v5.reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start)
* [Redux](https://redux.js.org/)
* [Redux-Saga](https://redux-saga.js.org/)
* [Node js](https://nodejs.org/en/about/)
* [Express js](https://expressjs.com/)
* [Axio](https://axio.com/)
* [The Open Movie Database API](https://www.omdbapi.com/)
* [Postico 2](https://eggerapps.at/postico2/)
* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
* [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/xaihang/) 

---

Commit message:

added usages and steps to readme doc

README.md, after:

# WATCHWORTHY (a movie managament app)

## Description
Watchworthy is a movie management application that allows users to effortlessly search for and add movies to their collection. Utilizing The Open Movie Database API, users can browse movies by title and add them to their Watchworthy collection with just a click. Once added, users can access an organized list of their chosen movies and click on each poster to view detailed information about the movie. Furthermore, removing movies from their collection is just as simple. Watchworthy streamlines the process of managing favorite movies or creating a collection for future viewing, making it an intuitive and user-friendly application.

**NOTE:** 
 [The Open Movie Database API](https://www.omdbapi.com/): has comprehensive documentation that is easy to follow. The API supports a variety of endpoints, including movie search and information retrieval. The API also supports several data formats, including JSON and XML.

---
## **TABLE OF CONTENT:**
1. [Screenshot of application](#screenshot-of-application)
1. [Installation & Setup](#installation--setup)
1. [Usage](#usage)
1. [Technologies utilization](#technologies-utilization)
1. [Contributors](#contributors)
1. [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)

---
## Screenshot of application
![search view](./public/searchvview.png)

---

## Installation & Setup
1. $ git clone git@github.com:xaihang/weekend-movie-sagas.git
1. `npm install`
1. Start postgres using brew services start postgresql (database name: `saga_movies_weekend`)
1. `npm run server` in your terminal
1. `npm run client` in another terminal. 
1. Navigate to localhost:3000

---

## Usage
Here are the step-by-step instructions on how to use Watchworthy:

1. Open the Watchworthy application.
1. On the main page, you will see a search bar where you can enter the movie title you want to add to your collection.
1. Type the movie title you want to add to your collection and click on the search button.
1. Once you have found the movie you want to add, click on the "Save" button below the movie poster.
1. The movie will now be added to your Watchworthy collection.
1. To access your collection, click on the logo (movie reel) anytime; it is located on the top left. 
1. You will now see an organized list of all the movies in your collection.
1. To view more details about a specific movie, click on the movie poster.
Here, you will be able to view the movie's plot and genres. 
1. If you want to remove a movie from your collection, simply click on the "Delete" button located below the movie poster.
1. Congratulations! You have successfully used Watchworthy to manage your movie collection.


---

## Technologies utilization 

* Javascript
* HTML
* CSS
* [React](https://reactjs.org/)
* [React Router v5](https://v5.reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start)
* [Redux](https://redux.js.org/)
* [Redux-Saga](https://redux-saga.js.org/)
* [Node js](https://nodejs.org/en/about/)
* [Express js](https://expressjs.com/)
* [Axio](https://axio.com/)
* [The Open Movie Database API](https://www.omdbapi.com/)
* [Postico 2](https://eggerapps.at/postico2/)
* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
* [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/xaihang/) 

---
